- [Instructor] One of the biggest uses
of asynchronous messaging,
though, often behind the scenes
in a microservices architecture is in data flows.
These data flows can range from a distributed data
and eventual consistency to CQRS-based data rights
to improve throughput
on a microservices-based data services.
So why is data such a powerful use case?
We have seen it through the stream data platform,
and now we are talking about it again
from a state store perspective.
The reason usually stems from data being hard, necessary,
and often very slow.
Databases, especially NoSQL databases,
have hung their hats on quick writes
to speed up the processing time,
but it can still be a bottleneck
for a highly utilized system.
So slowness, it's relative,
but there can be no denying for anyone with any experiences
in highly utilized production systems that data is slow.
Writing data, reading data, finding data
are all relatively slow processes.
There are remote network calls hidden underneath
a network call to a data service.
There's file IO that usually occurs
or copious amounts of ram are at play
to store the database in memory.
There's access issues where large indices
must be crawled to find data.
There's just no denying it.
The data is slow, but despite its performance,
it is critical to the operation of any system.
I have never worked on a system
that did only raw data processing in memory.
There is always a need to store state.
There's always a need to examine store data,
massage it, move it.
It just cannot be removed from the equation
and businesses need it to function.
In addition, it's growing daily.
My first hard drive was an amazing 80 megabytes.
Yes, megabytes.
Today, I have thousands of times more storage
on a flash drive sitting on my desk,
and that is nothing compared to what businesses store.
A simple aircraft flight records
and offloads copious amounts of data
on the performance and maintenance of the airplane.
Businesses want more and more data to be effective,
and this increases the data storage,
which also slows down the writing
and retrieval of data even more.
Sure, we can shard and segment our data,
but I've never seen a database get smaller naturally.
We're going to spend some time talking about
three big areas of data
that can utilize asynchronous messaging
to improve performance, or at the very least,
provide a viable mechanism.
The first is distributed data.
Distributed data usually is talked about globally,
but I'm going to expand that just a little bit
to include separate databases.
We're going to talk about the uses of asynchronous messaging
and eventual consistency
in a traditional distributed database concept.
But I also want to get into a perspective of CQRS
and what it means for microservices architecture
as it tends to draw more attention of developers today,
at least from a theory perspective.
We are then going to discuss a big topic
that applies not only to microservices,
but really, all systems,
and that is data migrations,
where we move data from one data store
to one or more new ones or vice versa.
Asynchronous patterns thrive here.
And finally, I want to talk about one
of the biggest pain points that I have felt
and that is data synchronization between systems
where asynchronous messaging not only thrives,
but it's almost an exclusive implementation.